docs: add Astro integration page (#1283)
vanilla-extract-css/vanilla-extract: site/docs/integrations/astro.md

---
title: Astro
parent: integrations
---

# Astro

> A plugin for integrating vanilla-extract with [Astro](https://astro.build).

Reviewer: This makes it sound like there's a separate astro plugin, but that's not the case. Just reworded it a bit.

```suggestion
Vanilla Extract integrates with [Astro](https://astro.build) via the Vite plugin, rather than a separate Astro plugin.
```

## Installation

```bash
npm install @vanilla-extract/css
npm install @vanilla-extract/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

## Setup

Add Vanilla Extract Vite plugin to the Astro configuration:

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import { vanillaExtractPlugin } from '@vanilla-extract/vite-plugin';

// https://astro.build/config
export default defineConfig({
  vite: {
    plugins: [vanillaExtractPlugin()]
  }
});
```

You'll then be able to use `style` and other APIs in `.css.ts` files.

```ts
// button.css.ts

import { style } from '@vanilla-extract/css';

export const button = style({
  padding: '0.5rem 1rem',
  border: 'none',
  borderRadius: '0.25rem',
  color: 'white',
  background: '#333'
});
```

```astro
---
// Button.astro
import { button } from './button.css'
---

<button class={button}>Click Me!</button>

> ```

Author: This shows up as unstyled for me. 😬 
![image](https://github.com/vanilla-extract-css/vanilla-extract/assets/3335181/cf3a0236-fc10-47bf-be95-33a3be4141c2)

I took a peek at the `CompiledCode` and `SyntaxHighlighter` system but didn't want to make too many changes. I was scared. What would you all advise be done here?

FWIW the progress I made was trying to import and register the `markup` syntax highlighting language for Astro, but that didn't get all the way:

```ts
// @ts-ignore
import markup from 'react-syntax-highlighter/dist/esm/languages/prism/markup';
SyntaxHighlighter.registerLanguage('astro', markup);
```

Reviewer 2: After a bit of digging, it looks like it will take a lot of work to have syntax highlighting for Astro files. Given it's only used on this page, I think we're ok with not having it.

---
title: Astro
parent: integrations
---

# Astro

Integrating Vanilla Extract with [Astro](https://astro.build) is done with the help of the [Vite plugin][vite integration].

## Installation

```bash
npm install @vanilla-extract/css
npm install @vanilla-extract/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

## Setup

Add Vanilla Extract Vite plugin to the Astro configuration:

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import { vanillaExtractPlugin } from '@vanilla-extract/vite-plugin';

// https://astro.build/config
export default defineConfig({
  vite: {
    plugins: [vanillaExtractPlugin()]
  }
});
```

You'll then be able to use `style` and other APIs in `.css.ts` files.

```ts
// button.css.ts

import { style } from '@vanilla-extract/css';

export const button = style({
  padding: '0.5rem 1rem',
  border: 'none',
  borderRadius: '0.25rem',
  color: 'white',
  background: '#333'
});
```

And now you can reference styles in your Astro component:

```tsx

> //  Button.astro

Reviewer 2: Bit of a hack, but it's not stupid if it works 😅 

<img width="433" alt="Button.astro" src="https://github.com/vanilla-extract-css/vanilla-extract/assets/3297808/766a12c2-0910-4f4e-b520-b7699ee2c794">
